qat : Copyright (c) 2025 : Aldrin Mathew

PUBLIC SOURCE LICENCE - 1.0

This project is licensed under the Public Source Licence 1.0

- You are allowed to obtain and view the source material of
  this project, free-of-cost.

- You are allowed to distribute the source of this project
  without any modifications, free-of-cost. This licence should
  be provided along with the source of the project. You are NOT
  allowed to sell the source of this project.

- You are allowed to build/process the source of this project.
  If the resultant product is distributed publicly free-of-cost
  by the author, then you are also allowed to redistribute the
  unmodified resultant product freely. However, this does not
  grant you permission to rebrand or sell the resultant product
  or build artefacts, in complete or incomplete form. If the
  resultant product (binary) is not distributed free-of-cost,
  you are NOT allowed to sell or distribute the build results
  or the resultant product.

- You are allowed to use this project in your own projects. If
  this is a library project, or if the resultant product of
  this project is linked to your project: You are required to
  use the same Licence for your project ONLY IF your project
  exposes functionality of this project in any manner. If your
  project merely makes use of this project, without exposing
  functionality, you are free to choose any licence for your
  project.

- You are allowed to perform modifications for PRIVATE use.
  Any modifications you make, either in the source or the
  resultant product (binary) should NOT be distributed. Even
  if it is meant for private use, any modifications made
  is recommended to be noted within the source and possibly
  the resultant product of the modified project.

- You are NOT allowed to use the name, branding and identity
  of this project to identify or brand any other project. You
  are however allowed to use the name and branding to pinpoint
  the source of this project. You are not allowed to use the
  identification of the Authors of this project to associate
  them to other projects, in a way that is deceiving or
  misleading or gives out false information.

- The terms of this licence applies only to versions of the
  project that are explicitly licensed under it. This licence
  does not control or restrict the licensing of future
  versions of the project, unless those versions are also
  licensed under this licence. The author is free to change
  the licence in future versions.

- This licence does NOT grant permission for the source or the
  resultant product of this project to be used to train or
  feed Artificial Intelligence or Machine Learning systems.
  Permission has to be granted explicitly by the author of
  this project for the source or the resultant product to be
  used for such purposes.

- The list of authors of this project may be listed at the
  beginning of this file, but it is not compulsory to list all
  contributors. The list is supposed to represent the primary
  list of authors, not all contributors - in case the project
  is open to minor contributions from the public. In case of
  major contributions from the public, it is recommended to
  include them in the list. Making contributions to this
  project without being a primary author does not grant you
  ownership over the project or its licensing terms. By making
  such contributions, you agree that such ownership is still
  in the hands of the primary authors.

- The sections named EXCEPTIONS, PHILOSOPHY and DEFINITIONS may
  be provided below, however they are not compulsory for the
  licence to be valid for the project. But any part of the
  licence other than these sections are required to be present
  for the licence to be valid.

Unless required by applicable law, this project is provided
"AS IS", WITHOUT ANY WARRANTIES OR PROMISES OF ANY KIND, either
expressed or implied. The author(s) of this project is not
liable for any harms, errors or troubles caused by using the
source or the product, unless implied by law. By using this
project, or part of it, you are acknowledging the complete
terms and conditions of licensing of this project as specified
in Public Source Licence 1.0 available at this URL:

https://github.com/aldrinmathew/PublicSource/

This project may contain parts that are not licensed under the
same terms. If so, it is recommended that the licences of those
parts are appropriately included. Such relevant files or parts
may be mentioned in the following section named EXCEPTIONS. It
is recommended, but not compulsory.

--------- EXCEPTIONS ---------

This project does not explicitly mention any files/materials
that are licensed differently. You can assess the source to
find parts that could be licensed differently.

--------- PHILOSOPHY ---------

The real world interpretation of open source is flawed, as it
is often meant to be "Free and Open Source" instead of just
"Open Source". And because of that, this licence is not
compatible with the definition of Open Source by the Open
Source Initiative (OSI). Instead this licence follows the true
meaning of "open" source, allowing the source to be viewed and
distributed by the public free of cost. However, advertising
that this licence promotes "open" source can lead to ambiguity
and confusion as there is another interpretation of the
concept known to the public.

"Free and Open Source" have been a significant pillar of
Software Development for decades now. However, in practice,
especially in the modern age, FOSS culture promotes toxic work
ethics and slave labour. While this opinion can be interpreted
as being woke for the sake of being woke, I humbly request you
to think about how FOSS truly works. It has paved way for
corporations to take advantage of entry-level software
developers. Newcomers are trained to think that sacrificing
their time for FOSS projects are good for their career. Even
experienced people are now peer-pressured into maintaining a
portfolio of FOSS projects to qualify for jobs. But they are
not supposed to focus "too much" on their projects as then
they might not be reliable and might spend too much time on
their work instead of that of the corporations. FOSS
contributors are almost completely unpaid and good public
projects often arise out of the painstaking sacrifices of a
few people. Corporations freely take advantage of such projects
and contributors. The social nature of certain code hosting
sites have encouraged a lot of garbage projects to be
published. The "cost-free" nature of some popular FOSS projects
have trained the software ecosystem to discourage creators or
authors from earning from their own work. There are violent
retaliations often against changes in project licenses. FOSS
consistently promotes the notion that anyone can contribute to
software projects, and this directly affects the quality of the
source code. That notion is insane in the face of it. Just
think about it. Do we say the same thing about any other
professions? The amount of noise in the software ecosystem has
increased massively and maintainers often have to weed through
a lot of useless information to find relevant issues and
contributions. It feels like the the backbone of the software
ecosystem is held hostage by the public, in the name of Open
Source.

However, I wholeheartedly acknowledge that FOSS has many
benefits over the closed-source/proprietory approach. It offers
many security benefits, and also cultivates transparency in the
software ecosystem. More bugs are found and fixed. There are
automated systems to deliver security updates for projects.
People are encouraged to find issues and bugs. Issues are
publicly available to be reviewed and discussed. It makes
software accessible for majority of the population. People can
learn from a diverse array of projects. The Public Source
licence is designed to provide most if not all of these
benefits. The major difference being that this licence does
not support modifications of the project to be freely published
and distributed. And also enables original authors to
distribute their product commercially.

--------- DEFINITIONS --------

1. "This licence", "licence", "the licence", "same licence"
   all refers to the Public Source Licence 1.0

2. "The source", "source", refers to the original material of
   the project (source code) that is subject to this licence,
   and from which the product is derived.

3. "The product", "product", "resultant product", "resultant
   binary" and "build result" refers to the result of the
   build or processing of the source. That is, the product is
   obtained or derived from the source.

4. "The author", "author" refers to the owner/creator/author
   or whoever represents the project, or is identified as its
   guardian.

5. "This project", "the project", "project", all refers to the
   collective of the Source and the Product. The project is
   usually represented with an easily identifiable name. This
   however does not make the distribution and usage of the
   product as being subject of this licence. The author can
   still choose how to distribute and make the product
   available, and whether it should be free-of-cost or not.

6. "You", "your" refers to the licensee. The licensee can be a
   person, a group of people, an organisation or an entity. In
   short, licensee is an entity that uses this project. Any
   entity obtaining a copy of the source of this project is a
   licensee of this project.
